---
title: "Trust and Chaos in Society"
date: 2024-09-20
layout: post
---

<div align="center">
  <h1><strong>Trust and Chaos in Society</strong></h1>
</div>

<br> <!-- Adds extra spacing -->

*First published in Sep 2024 on LI*<br><br>


I have realized, that ***Chaos is a natural symptom of a system*** where Trust gets broken. 

Our entire system in the world works on Trust! 

Every single second. Every single moment. 

You don’t realize this in a day to day life, but if you are not anxious or stressed, it’s because the Trust Layer of the system around you is working fine as you expected. 

Millions of Uber rides, flights get taken every day. Ppl go to doctors and take medication as prescribed when they get sick. It all works fine because you trust everyone of them is doing their job well. 

Imagine what would happen if you cannot trust the Uber driver’s driving, the captain of flight, the maker of flight engine. You cannot trust if the pill doctors refers is going to work on you. 

What do you think is going to happen?

The system will erupt in chaos. Everyone would be stressed, anxious all the time. Ppl will be getting angry at each other, rude. 

**Why?**

Because the fundamental trust layer on which the world around us works got broken. 

Every relationship, every endeavor you undertake in life relies on that Trust layer.

The relationship you are part of starts seeing anxiety when you can no longer trust the other person’s intentions, their emotions. 

You start getting stressed and anxious when the team you are leading breaks the trust of accountability in delivering initiatives you promised. Which leads to entire team getting stressed because they now feel it’s you who is causing it.

Ppl trust their govt will do the right thing. The moment the govt renegades on that promise, that trust, the society ruptures into chaos. 

Kids trust their parents are going to take care of their upbringing in the rightful way while parents trust their kids will grow up to their expectation. Moment any of that breaks, you end up in a broken family relationship.

Everyone, every single thing appears happy and great as long as the Trust Layer around them is working fine. 

The moment that Trust is broken, the whole system including the one who break the trust goes into chaos. 

Sad thing is Trust doesn’t need duality. Even if one side of the string goes loose, entire beam collapses.

<div style="text-align: center; font-size: 1.5em; padding: 15px; border-radius: 8px; background-color: #fcfcfc; border: 1px solid #eee; width: 80%; margin: 20px auto;">
    <strong>The world runs on Trust. The moment Trust is broken, the system spirals into Chaos.</strong>
</div>

And that is the fundamental cause for all issues in life.