---
title: "The Fall"
date: 2026-03-21
layout: post
---

<div align="center">
  <h1><strong>The Fall</strong></h1>
</div>

<br> <!-- Adds extra spacing -->

One of the reasons why sometimes in our life we keep on doing things which we don't feel like doing is because we fear falling.

Fear of falling in doing new things, in trying out new adventures! And it's interesting, as we forget most of the time we have just been falling.

Your life begins when you fall into this world when your connection to the womb is cut!

You fall when you take that first step to walk.

You fall when you first put your feet on those bicycle pedals.

You fall in your parent's expectations when you fall behind in studies.

You fall from someone's trust when you lie, cheat them.

You fall for someone's bluff that they look to meet you in your city, only to meet someone else.

You fall from humanity when you kill a man and steal his wife's right to a husband, rob his children of a father.

Heck, you even fall in love. Which feels as if you are falling down from a 1000 storied building and nevertheless you are enjoying it because you know there is someone down there to catch you! But beware my friend, often we just "feel" someone is down there, and when they actually aren't, you might just crash land!

<br> <!-- Adds extra spacing -->

And those are the times you don't realize, but you actually fall drowning when you try to be everyone else's anchor!

But, falling is not always fatal and many fallings aren't really a fall!

Sometimes, it gives you a sense of future, a belief in yourself.

<div style="text-align: center; font-style: italic; padding: 15px; border-radius: 8px; background-color: #fcfcfc; border: 1px solid #eee; width: 80%; margin: 20px auto;">
'A belief like that of a bird sitting on a tree which is never afraid of branch breaking, because her trust is not on the branch but on its own wings'.
</div>

<br> <!-- Adds extra spacing -->

A belief that you would be there when someone else takes the same fall. Whether it's your kid falling from taking that first step or someone falling in love with you this time. Because no matter how safely you play in life, you know you still have to take that last fall into your grave. The Fall into that pit, that abyss when our stay in this world is over.

You start your life with a fall, you end your life with a fall...And you would want that last fall to be enjoyable.
